`breed` is a special primitive that can only be placed in the top of a netlogo file that defines a particular *kind* or *breed* of turtle. `breed` is useful when you have different classes of turtles that each need to have their own behavior, and you want to have an easy way to reference each group within your code. To create a breed, you call breed with two names, first the plural name (dog*s*, cat*s*, mice) and then the singular (dog, cat, mouse). So if we were to create a breed for wolves, we would say `breed [wolves wolf]`.

`breed` is also special in that it creates other commands that can be used later on in your code. For example, whereas to create a generic turtle, you use `create-turtles`, once you define a breed, say, for instance, dogs, using `breed [dogs dog]` you create those dogs using `create-dogs`, check if there are any dogs here using `dogs-here` instead of `turtles-here`, and if you want to talk to the 0th dog, you use `dog 0` instead of `turtle 0`. Any time you see `<breed>` or `<breeds>` in the dictionary, you can substitute in the singular or plural name for your newly created breed, respectively.

In this example, I use `breed` to create two classes of turtles with very different behavior, trees and lumberjacks. Trees just sit there, and lumberjacks wander around and, if they happen upon a patch with a tree, cut it down. While it wouldn't be too difficult to create a version of this model without `breed` using the `with` command, `breed` allows us to write much more readable code.